README.md, before:

# AddToCalendar

A ruby gem to generate 'Add To Calendar' URLs for Apple, Google, Office 365, Outlook, Outlook.com and Yahoo calendars.

If this gem brings you some value feel free to buy me a coffee :) [![ko-fi](https://www.ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/P5P71PK9T)

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'add_to_calendar'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install add_to_calendar

## Requirements

- Ruby 2.0 or higher

## Usage

```ruby
# create new instance, adding your event attributes
@cal = AddToCalendar::URLs.new(
        start_datetime: Time.new(2020,12,12,13,30,00,0), 
        title: "Christmas party!", 
        timezone: 'Europe/London'
      )

# access 'add to calendar' URLs
@cal.google_url
#=> "https://www.google.com/calendar/render?action=TEMPLATE&text=Christmas%20party%21&dates=20201212T133000/20201212T143000&ctz=Europe/London"

@cal.yahoo_url
#=> "https://calendar.yahoo.com/?v=60&view=d&type=20&title=Christmas%20party%21&st=20201212T133000Z&dur=0100"

@cal.office365_url
#=> "https://outlook.office.com/calendar/0/deeplink/compose?path=/calendar/action/compose&rru=addevent&subject=Christmas%20party%21&startdt=2020-12-12T13:30:00Z&enddt=2020-12-12T14:30:00Z"

# For outlook.com, different to Outlook the desktop application below
@cal.outlook_com_url
#=> "https://outlook.live.com/calendar/0/deeplink/compose?path=/calendar/action/compose&rru=addevent&subject=Christmas%20party%21&startdt=2020-12-12T13:30:00Z&enddt=2020-12-12T14:30:00Z"

# ical provides a data-uri which will download a properly formatted *.ics file (see 'Creating HTML links' section)
@cal.ical_url
#=> "data:text/calendar;charset=utf8,BEGIN:VCALENDAR%0AVERSION:2.0%0ABEGIN:VEVENT%0ADTSTART:20201212T133000Z%0ADTEND:20201212T143000Z%0ASUMMARY:Christmas%20party%21%0AUID:-20201212T133000Z-Christmas%20party%21%0AEND:VEVENT%0AEND:VCALENDAR"

# apple_url and outlook_url are simply helper methods that call ical_url
@cal.apple_url
#=> "data:text/calendar;charset=utf8,BEGIN:VCALENDAR%0AVERSION:2.0%0ABEGIN:VEVENT%0ADTSTART:20201212T133000Z%0ADTEND:20201212T143000Z%0ASUMMARY:Christmas%20party%21%0AUID:-20201212T133000Z-Christmas%20party%21%0AEND:VEVENT%0AEND:VCALENDAR"

@cal.outlook_url
#=> "data:text/calendar;charset=utf8,BEGIN:VCALENDAR%0AVERSION:2.0%0ABEGIN:VEVENT%0ADTSTART:20201212T133000Z%0ADTEND:20201212T143000Z%0ASUMMARY:Christmas%20party%21%0AUID:-20201212T133000Z-Christmas%20party%21%0AEND:VEVENT%0AEND:VCALENDAR"
```

### Creating HTML links

```erb
<!-- Simply pass the url into the href Eg. in ERB -->
<a href="<%= @cal.google_url %>">Add to Google Calendar</a>

<a href="<%= @cal.yahoo_url %>">Add to Yahoo Calendar</a>

<!-- for ical_url, apple_url and outlook_url you can set the filename like so -->
<a download="calendar-event.ics" href="<%= @cal.ical_url %>">Download iCal</a>
```

### Event attributes

```ruby
event_attributes = {
    start_datetime: Time.new(2020,12,12,9,00,00,0), # required
    end_datetime: Time.new(2020,12,12,17,00,00,0),
    title: "Ruby Conference", # required
    timezone: 'America/New_York', # required
    location: "20 W 34th St, New York, NY 10001", 
    url: "https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/",
    description: "Join us to learn all about Ruby.",
    add_url_to_description: true # defaults to true
}

cal = AddToCalendar::URLs.new(event_attributes)
```

| Attribute              | Required? | Class      | Notes |
| -----------------------|-----------|------------|-------|
| start_datetime         | Yes       | Time       |       |
| end_datetime           | No        | Time       | <ul><li>If not provided, defaults to start_datetime + 1 hour</li><li>Must be > start_datetime</li></ul> |
| title                  | Yes       | String     |       |
| timezone               | Yes       | String     | Must be in [tz database format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) Eg. 'Europe/London', 'America/New_York' |
| location               | No        | String     |       |
| url                    | No        | String     | Most providers do not have a native URL field. If you set `url` it will be added to the end of the description field (see `add_url_to_description`) |
| description            | No        | String     | Accepts newlines by passing `\n` Eg. `"Join us for fun & drinks\n\nPS. Smart casual"` |
| add_url_to_description | No        | true/false | defaults to `true`. Set `add_url_to_description: false` to stop the URL from being added to the description |

### Timezones and offsets

- Offset values eg. "2020-05-13 15:31:00 **+05:00**" are ignored. It is only important that you have the correct date and time numbers set. The timezone is set directly using its own attribute `timezone`.
- You must set a timezone so that when users add the event to their calendar it shows at their correct local time. 
  - Eg. London event @ `2020-05-13 13:30:00` will save in a New Yorker's calendar as local time `2020-05-13 17:30:00`

### Browser support

- IE11 and lower will not work for `ical_url`, `apple_url` and `outlook_url` (IE does not properly support [data-uri links](https://caniuse.com/#feat=datauri). See [#16](https://github.com/jaredlt/add_to_calendar/issues/16)).
- IE11 will also not work with `Yahoo`, but this is because Yahoo only offers a simplified interface for IE11 which does not work with the add event URL.

### More details

- Read the [Wiki](https://github.com/jaredlt/add_to_calendar/wiki) for more specific details

## Why build this?

I couldn't find an approriate gem or javascript library that did exactly what I wanted. So I decided to scratch my own itch to solve a problem for a startup I'm working on: https://www.littlefutures.org

## Releases

- https://rubygems.org/gems/add_to_calendar

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake test` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/jaredlt/add_to_calendar.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Add android_url helper method and fix Office365/Outlook.com ampersand render issue in Subject

README.md, after:

# AddToCalendar

A ruby gem to generate 'Add To Calendar' URLs for Android, Apple, Google, Office 365, Outlook, Outlook.com and Yahoo calendars.

If this gem brings you some value feel free to buy me a coffee :) [![ko-fi](https://www.ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/P5P71PK9T)

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'add_to_calendar'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install add_to_calendar

## Requirements

- Ruby 2.0 or higher

## Usage

```ruby
# create new instance, adding your event attributes
@cal = AddToCalendar::URLs.new(
        start_datetime: Time.new(2020,12,12,13,30,00,0), 
        title: "Christmas party!", 
        timezone: 'Europe/London'
      )

# access 'add to calendar' URLs
@cal.google_url
#=> "https://www.google.com/calendar/render?action=TEMPLATE&text=Christmas%20party%21&dates=20201212T133000/20201212T143000&ctz=Europe/London"

@cal.yahoo_url
#=> "https://calendar.yahoo.com/?v=60&view=d&type=20&title=Christmas%20party%21&st=20201212T133000Z&dur=0100"

@cal.office365_url
#=> "https://outlook.office.com/calendar/0/deeplink/compose?path=/calendar/action/compose&rru=addevent&subject=Christmas%20party%21&startdt=2020-12-12T13:30:00Z&enddt=2020-12-12T14:30:00Z"

# For outlook.com, different to Outlook the desktop application below
@cal.outlook_com_url
#=> "https://outlook.live.com/calendar/0/deeplink/compose?path=/calendar/action/compose&rru=addevent&subject=Christmas%20party%21&startdt=2020-12-12T13:30:00Z&enddt=2020-12-12T14:30:00Z"

# ical provides a data-uri which will download a properly formatted *.ics file (see 'Creating HTML links' section)
@cal.ical_url
#=> "data:text/calendar;charset=utf8,BEGIN:VCALENDAR%0AVERSION:2.0%0ABEGIN:VEVENT%0ADTSTART:20201212T133000Z%0ADTEND:20201212T143000Z%0ASUMMARY:Christmas%20party%21%0AUID:-20201212T133000Z-Christmas%20party%21%0AEND:VEVENT%0AEND:VCALENDAR"

# android_url, apple_url and outlook_url are simply helper methods that call ical_url and return the same string.
```

### Creating HTML links

```erb
<!-- Simply pass the url into the href Eg. in ERB -->
<a href="<%= @cal.google_url %>">Add to Google Calendar</a>

<a href="<%= @cal.yahoo_url %>">Add to Yahoo Calendar</a>

<!-- for ical_url, android_url, apple_url and outlook_url you can set the filename like so -->
<a download="calendar-event.ics" href="<%= @cal.ical_url %>">Download iCal</a>
```

### Event attributes

```ruby
event_attributes = {
    start_datetime: Time.new(2020,12,12,9,00,00,0), # required
    end_datetime: Time.new(2020,12,12,17,00,00,0),
    title: "Ruby Conference", # required
    timezone: 'America/New_York', # required
    location: "20 W 34th St, New York, NY 10001", 
    url: "https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/",
    description: "Join us to learn all about Ruby.",
    add_url_to_description: true # defaults to true
}

cal = AddToCalendar::URLs.new(event_attributes)
```

| Attribute              | Required? | Class      | Notes |
| -----------------------|-----------|------------|-------|
| start_datetime         | Yes       | Time       |       |
| end_datetime           | No        | Time       | <ul><li>If not provided, defaults to start_datetime + 1 hour</li><li>Must be > start_datetime</li></ul> |
| title                  | Yes       | String     |       |
| timezone               | Yes       | String     | Must be in [tz database format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) Eg. 'Europe/London', 'America/New_York' |
| location               | No        | String     |       |
| url                    | No        | String     | Most providers do not have a native URL field. If you set `url` it will be added to the end of the description field (see `add_url_to_description`) |
| description            | No        | String     | Accepts newlines by passing `\n` Eg. `"Join us for fun & drinks\n\nPS. Smart casual"` |
| add_url_to_description | No        | true/false | defaults to `true`. Set `add_url_to_description: false` to stop the URL from being added to the description |

### Timezones and offsets

- Offset values eg. "2020-05-13 15:31:00 **+05:00**" are ignored. It is only important that you have the correct date and time numbers set. The timezone is set directly using its own attribute `timezone`.
- You must set a timezone so that when users add the event to their calendar it shows at their correct local time. 
  - Eg. London event @ `2020-05-13 13:30:00` will save in a New Yorker's calendar as local time `2020-05-13 17:30:00`

### Browser support

- IE11 and lower will not work for `ical_url`, `apple_url` and `outlook_url` (IE does not properly support [data-uri links](https://caniuse.com/#feat=datauri). See [#16](https://github.com/jaredlt/add_to_calendar/issues/16)).
- IE11 will also not work with `Yahoo`, but this is because Yahoo  is deprecating IE 11 support and only offers a simplified interface which does not work with the add event URL.
- `Office 365` and `Outlook.com` do not work on mobile. This seems to be an issue on Microsoft's side. Their mobile web interface does not support the 'create event' URLs and the links do not open the apps if you have them installed.

### More details

- Read the [Wiki](https://github.com/jaredlt/add_to_calendar/wiki) for more specific details

## Why build this?

I couldn't find an approriate gem or javascript library that did exactly what I wanted. So I decided to scratch my own itch to solve a problem for a startup I'm working on: https://www.littlefutures.org

## Releases

- https://rubygems.org/gems/add_to_calendar

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake test` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/jaredlt/add_to_calendar.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
